# Hemera
Created by **Yi Wang (Neakor)**

## Introdction

Hemera is a high-performance, lightweight, RESTful consumer server application
development platform based on the Java SE platform. It aims to help consumer
application developers to focus on their application specific logic development
without having to worry about the low level system details. Hemera provides
guidences and enforcements to application server architecture through its
application extension interface, to help improve mainability and scalability.

## Design Requirements, Features and Principles

1. Provide high throughput, high concurrency and high scalability.
2. Extremely easy to use to develop RESTful consumer application server.
3. Provide guidences and enforcements to help improve software maintainability
and conform to REST principles.
4. Provide complete application packaging, deployment and hosting solutions.
5. Modular design to allow extensions and individual project usages.

## Core Concepts

### Runtime

Hemera runtime is the application hosting environment. It is run in a daemon process
of the Java VM. The runtime provides various system level services such as the
connection listener, connection handler and execution service. All the hosted
applications are run within this JVM process. The runtime can be controlled
via hemera commands and the runtime handle injected to hosted application modules.

### Connection Listener and Handler

Connection listener and handler is a system level service that you won't need to
interact typically. If you are curious on what they do and how they work, read on.
Otherwise, move on to the next section :) A connection listener is provided by
the runtime to accept incoming connections. When a new connection is established,
a connection handler is created to provide dedicated handling of that connection.
The connection handler properly routes requests to their corresponding modules
and processors for processing. This system level is implemented with high
concurrency to allow highly concurrent client request handling. This design
allows the server to handle a large number of clients concurrently, while providing
high throughput.

### Execution Service

### Application

A Hemera application is composed of a set of modules, each representing a REST
resource that can be accessed via Http or Https protocols. An application hosted
by the Hemera platform is defined by its Hemera Bundle Model (hbm) file described
below.

### Application Module

A Hemera application module is a direct representation of an application REST
resource. It is composed of a set of processors that provides the logic to
interact with the resource and may contain state information of the resource.

### Processor

A processor encapsulates a set of logic operations that provides the means to interact
with an application REST resource, a module. This is where all of your application
logic should be encapsulated. A processor must belong to a specific module.

## Hemera Commands

Hemera exports its binary path to your shell profile that is accessable to all
user accounts in your server OS. Similar to Maven, you can run Hemera commands
by executing "hemera COMMAND ARGUMENTS" in a terminal. Arguments to a command
should be separated by the space character.

### Installation

1. Download a release from here: TODO
2. Unzip the downloaded release anywhere on your system.
3. Open a terminal and cd to the unzipped directory.
4. Run "./hemera install YOUR_DISIRED_HEMERA_HOME_DIRECTORY"
5. Follow the instructions: run "source /etc/profile" or restart shell session to
allow the newly exported path to take effect.
6. Done :)

### Uninstallation

1. Open a terminal and run "hemera uninstall"
2. Follow the instructions: run "source /etc/profile" or restart shell session to
remove the hemera path.

### Start Runtime


# Hemera - Core Environme

**Hemera - Core Environment** provides the access to various system
functionalities including platform installation and un-installation, runtime
start and stop, application bundling, deployment and removal.

# Documentation
TODO

# License

**Hemera - Core Environment** is available under the MIT license:

*Copyright (c) 2012 Yi Wang (hemera)*

*Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy*
*of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal*
*in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights*
*to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell*
*copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is*
*furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:*

*The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in*
*all copies or substantial portions of the Software.*

*THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR*
*IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,*
*FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE*
*AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER*
*LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,*
*OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN*
*THE SOFTWARE.*